Welcome back in the previous step we configure the limits service to connect to this spring cloud config server.
We created something called Bootstrap dot properties instead of application dot properties to configure
the URI of the spring cloud config server and get the limits service connected to it.
And we saw that by default limits service uses the default profile.
So let's now configure a dev profile and QA profile then see what values are picked up from the spring cloud config
server the important thing for you to understand is the fact that right now all the configuration for the
limits service is coming from where it's coming from the GIT repository.
We are not really contributing anything in the limits service.
The only thing which we are configuring the limits service is what is the URI of this spring cloud
config server that's the only thing other than that all the other configuration for limits service is being configured.
In the GIT repository.
The advantage of configuring stuff in the GIT depositary is now the entire configuration of limits.
Service is separated from the deployment of the limits service.
You don't really need to worry about what configuration that needs to be used when deploying it.
It would automatically pick it up from the GIT repository.
OK enough theory.
Let's get back to the practical stuff and configure a few profiles for the limit service.
I'm opening up the bootstrap dot properties inside the limits service and over here by default we are using
the default profile I would want to use specific profile.
How do I do that.
The way we can do is by saying spring dot profiles dot active is equal to whichever profile you want
to use.
So let's say I want to use the dev profiles starting off.
So I would want to dev.
So 1 and 1 1 1.
Those are the values I would want to use.
So in your dev environment all that you need to do is set the spring profiles active is equal
to dev.
In this example we are actually using bootstrap dot properties to set the active profile.
But actually you can configure this in N number of ways.
One of the ways you can pass in the active profile is through things like VM arguments or the java application
arguments and things like that.
Now let's wait for the application to pick this change up when I run the limits right now you would see that the values
that are being picked up are 1 1 1 and 1.
If you look at the configuration of the dev that's the values we have configured so 1 and 1 1
1.
I don't want to override the value for maximum I would only want to override the value for minimum in the dev the
maximum I would want to pick up from the default which is present in here.
Well the change we picked up immediately when I refresh the URL you would see that there is no change.
Why think about it why am I not getting the latest values.
The reason is because I'm not really committed it down to the GIT repository.
Only the changes that are committed to the local GIT repository are available through the config server.
Let's go ahead and commit them in you can say GIT add star.
And now say GIT status you would see that I've modified one property file that's cool that's the one which I wanted to
commit in so GIT commit hyphen m and I would want to put in the comment saying removed configuration for maximum.
OK that's done.
And now I refresh it and still I don't pick up the new value.
Why is it so.
The thing is we are connecting the limits service to the spring cloud config server.
What happens is at the application start up at the start up of
limits service is when it picks up the values from the spring cloud config server.
Let's restart the application to pick the changes up.
I'm stopping the limits service starting it again at later point in time.
We would see that there is something called the refresh URL which we can make use of to refresh
the configuration from a spring cloud config server.
But for now let's just restart the application and execute the URI again.
Now you can see that the maximum is coming with the default value what is the default value that we
have.
It's in the limits service dot properties it's 8 8 8 .
However the minimum value.
We are overriding it.
We are getting the value from the dev profile in the bootstrap.
We configured dev profile and we are picking up the values from the dev profile.
Now let's see what would happen when I change the profile.
I would want to change the profile to QA the application would start picking up the changes you can see that it's
picking up the changes and refreshing it.
And now I can go ahead and execute the limits.
And now you can see that the QA values are being picked up so the maximum 2 2 2 minimum 2.
These are all the values which are coming from the Q A environment configuration.
In the earliest step we configured different environment properties different environment configuration
for the limits service in GIT.
We did that by creating configuration limits servies QA limits service DEV dot properties and things like
that.
The the GIT repository in this step we looked at how I can configure profiles on the limits service to be able to
pick up that specific configuration from the spring cloud config server.
Until the next step bye bye.